Currently, we're running in dev mode.
And in dev mode, basically,
Vite is running.
And what Vite is doing is, well,
there are two parts running.
First of all,
there is this thing we call optimizer,
optimizer is written in Rust, and
it takes your code base and breaks it up.
So it looks for the dollar signs, and
wherever it sees a dollar sign, it says,
that's a potential lazy loading thing,
and I'm gonna break this up and
allow you to lazy load that piece of code.
And so the optimizer is the thing
that allows you to break everything
into pieces.
Now in dev mode,
we run everything through Vite, and
Vite will serve all of
those pieces independently.
So in this situation in Vite,
you could easily get to waterfall events.
Let me show you what I mean by that.
So let's say we have our search.
Let's run this.
Okay, it's running.
Let's go to our Search and,
Just for fun, just to be complicated,
I am going to pull this out.
So let's see.
What I wanna do is I want to say
set Filter, I'm gonna pull this out.
So now we have a method called set filter,
and so now I'm gonna say const setFilter
which will get a value
which is a string and
it will do filter.value = value.
Okay, I just pulled it out into
a kind of a helper function, right?
This doesn't change anything.
But a few things that are happening
right now, first of all,
it's complaining about the setFilter.
And so if you hover over it,
what it saying is,
look, you are referring to setFilter,
but I am going to refactor this.
Because this is in a dollar sign, I'm
gonna refactor this to a top level thing
and I won't be able to
reach the setFilter.
So the rules are,
if you're gonna do something like this,
setFilter either has to be importable, so
I need to be able to write an import
statement to kind of get it to it.
In this case, I can't import that or
I need to be able to serialize it, and
this is a closure, and
I don't know how to serialize this.
So you need to do something.
And so in the world of Quake,
what you do is you import,
you wrap it in a dollar sign.
And for some reason,
I have to manually add this thing here.
Okay, so
we've wrapped it in a dollar sign, and
what that basically means
is that it says optimizer,
please take this function and turn it
into a lazy loadable, importable think.
And when I did this,
now this particular code is happy,
it's perfectly happy to call the set
value because it's serializable, right?
Now notice what's happening here.
This closure is capturing setFilter and
then setFilter internally is
capturing the filter, right?
And so if we go here,
it should still work, so if I type an a,
everything's working as you expect.
But notice what happens in terms
of our code that we download.
So the first piece we
download [COUGH] is we
downloaded the handler for
our code base, right?
And right after that, we downloaded
the set value which then in turn
downloaded the JSX and
everything else, right?
And so if you look at from the point
of view of, refresh this again,
the waterfall that's on the left-hand
side here, if I enter a,
there's a bit of a waterfall happening,
it's kind of hard to see.
Let me see if I can do it immediately.
There's a bit of a waterfall
happening in here, right, and
[COUGH] it's downloading
a whole bunch of code, and
all of this thing is not good for
performance when production.
So what happens in production?
So in production, we don't do Vite,
instead we have to build this thing.
So let me see.
Instead of npm run dev, we say build.
And so this goes and builds for
us a whole bunch of things,
and it complains that this is imported but
not used.
And this is imported and
not used, okay?
Let's build it.
Okay, so now it broke up our application
into lots of individual pieces.
You see all of these chunks are broken up,
and then everything is made available.
So let's go and
try to run this in production mode.
So in production mode,
you do preview, I think.
There's a different command for whether
you're doing production of Netlify, or
Cloudflare, or whatever.
So this is just a Node.js version.
And so let's grab this URL /contacts.
And let's go to Network.
And let's do JavaScript and refresh.
So, notice what's happening here.
We still are downloading
the first chunk and
the second chunk cuz the clock
is happening immediately, right?
But notice that the service worker
responded, we never made a request.
Let me show this to you in
a slightly different way.
Let's refresh this.
Actually, let me now disable cache.
And let me clear the Service Worker cache,
Delete Service Worker,
Local Host, Unregister.
Okay, so we are now navigating
to the page first time, so
we do an empty cache and a hard reload.
The service worker immediately
started fetching the code, right, so
this is the prefetching
that happens automatically.
And in this particular case,
the service worker kind of recognized that
these are the only pieces that we need,
and so it downloaded all
those pieces ahead of time.
And so now if I flip over to
JavaScript mode and I start searching,
notice my code was from
the service worker, right?
It responded from the service worker.
And so as a result,
the downloads didn't happen.
That's the first difference.
There is a service worker and this service
worker if I go into it, if I go here.
This service worker if you look at it,
knows about all of
the bundles ahead of time.
Not only does it know
about all the bundles,
it also understands how these
bundles import from other bundles.
And because it understands this,
it knows like,
if you request bundle A,
I am gonna need to also download bundle B.
And so the service worker
immediately on hitting the URL,
starts fetching all of the things.
Now, how does it know what
it can possibly fetch?
Well, the reason it knows that is
because when we render a page,
let's go back to this page,
[COUGH] one of the things we do.
Yes, so in here is a tiny JavaScript.
That's one,
there's I think more of them here.
[COUGH] This tiny piece of JavaScript sets
up a global listener called QPrefetch.
And then anywhere in the system, you can
just dispatch an event, the custom event
called Qprefetch, and you specify
which bundles do you want right here.
And so
at the beginning when the system wakes up,
when we were running on a server, we
looked at all the possible entry points.
In other words, what can you do?
You can click on stuff, you can interact
with the page, you can hover over things,
whatever, we collected
all the possible things.
And we saw that, the only possible
ways you can interact with the system
means that you may need this,
this, this, or this bundle.
And so we fire this event off, and
now the service worker says, okay,
let me go fetch this.
But I now know that if you ask for
this bundle,
I'm also gonna need this other bundle,
so it does it transitively.
And the reason why this is important
is because you can very easily create
things like unhover.
So for example, when something becomes
visible or when you hover over something,
you immediately can see,
now you are likely to click on this,
let me go tell the service
worker to start fetching.
Or better yet, you are on the particular
page and that page doesn't
have a particular button, so therefore,
you cannot execute some bundle, right?
So we don't fetch that bundle.
But then you open up a model dialogue box
and that model has a whole bunch of new
buttons, and so it's very easy to
just do query selector all and
find all of the possible
things you can click on.
And now you issue another event that says,
okay, now that we have transitioned,
I now know about new set of
bundles that I might need.
And so you fire this Qprefetch event,
the service worker picks it up and
make sure that the data is available.
So as you're navigating through your
application, as you go from page
A to page B, or to modal, or
you open things or unhide things, etc,
a new possible links become visible or
new possible buttons become visible.
The system automatically tells
the service worker, like,
go get me this stuff, I may need this.
And over time,
the service worker basically fills
in all the items in the cache.
So basically, the moment a button comes
on a page that has a click listener,
the service worker immediately proactively
starts fetching the code associated for
the button, whether or
not you actually click on it.
And so in this way, the service worker
will stay as a step ahead of you,
and you should never get to the situation
where you click on something and
the code is not available for you, yes?
>> So to clarify,
the service worker is proactively
doing this based on visibility?
Or is there something that you have to do
in your code in order
to make it proactive?
The service worker is doing this
automatically not because of visibility,
it's doing it because on a server,
when it renders a page,
the server tells it what
are the possible things.
And then when the code runs on
the client to render new things,
the rendering process now tells it that,
as I was rendering,
I've discovered these
other possible paths.
By the way, we call those QRLs, so
it says I discovered these new QRLs,
go fetch them.
And so in practice even if you're
in a slow connection or whatever,
you should never be in a situation
where you click on something and
the code is not available, right?
And you can also see that we can do all
kinds of optimizations that normal systems
cannot do.
So normal systems typically have this
problem that you end up with the one
humongous chunk, and
there's no way to break this chunk up,
or no easy way to break this chunk up,
right?
Here because we already broken
this up into thousands of pieces,
it's easy to put those pieces together.
And so we now have choices to put
these pieces first or those pieces?
So we give you one chunk or ten chunks?
All of those things are essentially
a configuration information into
the bundling system and
none of them require you to
change any kind of source code.
So the idea is you first build an app,
and at the beginning, you don't have much
information about how people use your app,
and so some default heuristics happen.
And then as people start using the app,
you start collecting information.
And by the way,
the symbols are intentionally made
such that the hash of the symbol
is stable across the builds.
And so you get to collect and find out,
these symbols are together, and
this button is more likely to be
clicked than this other button, right?
And so as a result, you really end up
with the absolute optimal bundle size.
I cannot imagine what else could we
do to make this even more optimal,
every trick that I could
think of is in here, right?
We know how to break it up, we do it into
pieces, we put it in the correct order.
You solve one problem with having a single
large bundle is that you cannot execute
anything good until the whole
bundle is downloaded, right?
So for this reason,
you should have fewer smaller bundles, so
that as the first bundle shows up,
you can start executing it, right?
Of course, we don't need to execute
anything because we're resumable, but
let's say it's a clock,
like situation in here, right?
In this case, the system should
be smart enough to basically say,
the symbol associated with the clock
is the first one that we need, and so
please put it inside of the first bundle.
And then the second bundle needs
to have this code over here.
And then the other bundles for login and
logout, those are low priority because
you can't reach them from here.
You have to navigate somewhere else
before you can get reach that particular
piece of code.